docs/how_to/adding_new_ida_to_toggle_report.rst, before:

.. _adding_new_ida:

=============================================
How-to: Enabling toggles report for a new IDA
=============================================

The generation of toggles report for an IDA has been automated for the LMS. This document lists what needs to be done to automate toggle report generation for other IDAs. There are a number of references in here that are specific to edX.org's automation infrastructure and internal configuration repos, but there should be enough detail provided for Open edX users to set up something similar.

.. contents:: Steps

Gathering Data
==============

Annotation data
---------------
The toggles are annotated in code following edX code annotation: `writing annotations`_. The `code_annotations`_ tool is used to collect annotations into a report.

The steps to collect annotations are automated through a jenkins job:

- `groovy job specification`_ in ``generate-code-annotation-report``
- `Jenkins Job folder`_
- Once the job is done, the annotations data is pushed to an S3 bucket: `script to push data to s3 bucket`_

The job creates files with names like `<ida_name>-annotations.yml`. The feature toggle report generator will key off the `ida_name` in the filename in order to be able to link this data to the toggle state data collected in the next step.

.. _writing annotations: https://code-annotations.readthedocs.io/en/latest/writing_annotations.html
.. _code_annotations: https://github.com/edx/code-annotations

Steps
~~~~~

- Add IDA specification to `edx-internal/*/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml`_ under ``idas`` key
- Add IDA specification in ``scripts/configuration.yaml``


Problems with current approach
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- If job fails:

    - Arch-bom is alway notified on failure


State data from HTTP endpoint
-----------------------------
Toggles state is stored in the database for each deployment and must be retrieved either directly from the database or via the application.

Collection of state data is automated through a jenkins job.

- `groovy job specification`_  in ``gather-${ida['name']}-${environment}-feature-toggle-state`` job
- `Jenkins Job folder`_
- Once the job is done, the state data is pushed to an S3 bucket: `script to push data to s3 bucket`_

Steps
~~~~~
- Add the edx-toggles Django app to the IDA:

    - Include ``edx-toggles`` in the ``base.in`` requirements file.
      It provides a Django view that allows staff users to retrieve
      a JSON document containing the boolean waffle switches and settings.
      (**TODO:** Not yet possible! Functionality still in ``waffle_utils`` in edx-platform;
      will be moved into edx-toggles.)
    - Add it to your ``urls.py``: ``url(r'^api/toggles/', include('edx_toggles.views.TODO'))``
      (**TODO:** As above, and names have yet to be decided.)

- Add environment specification for your database to `edx-internal/*/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml`_


Problems with current approach
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The toggle state Django app hasn't been moved into edx-toggles yet, so this only works for the LMS so far

.. _edx-internal/*/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml: https://github.com/edx/edx-internal/blob/master/tools-edx-jenkins/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml


Processing data
===============

`feature_toggle_report_generator.py`_


The annotation data and Toggle state data dump should be stored in s3 buckets. The automated publish-feature-toggle-report job (in `groovy job specification`_) pulls the data from s3 buckets and calls `feature_toggle_report_generator.py`_ to process  the data and output it as a csv file.

As long as the data is structured correctly (specified in `README`_), nothing should be necessary

Possible improvements
---------------------

- Add ability to filter idas in report



Publishing data
===============

As of now, the toggle csv reports are retained as artifacts in Jenkins job: `publish-feature-toggle-report`_.

The plan is to eventually find a different home for it (possibly in google sheets).


.. _Jenkins Job folder: https://tools-edx-jenkins.edx.org/job/Feature-Toggle-Report-Generator
.. _groovy job specification: https://github.com/edx/jenkins-job-dsl-internal/blob/master/jobs/tools-edx-jenkins.edx.org/createFeatureToggleReportGeneratorJobs.groovy
.. _script to push data to s3 bucket: https://github.com/edx/jenkins-job-dsl-internal/blob/master/resources/push-feature-toggle-data-to-s3.sh
.. _script to pull data from s3 bucket: https://github.com/edx/jenkins-job-dsl-internal/blob/master/resources/pull-feature-toggle-data-from-s3.sh
.. _feature_toggle_report_generator.py: https://github.com/edx/edx-toggles/blob/master/scripts/feature_toggle_report_generator.py
.. _publish-feature-toggle-report: https://tools-edx-jenkins.edx.org/job/Feature-Toggle-Report-Generator/job/publish-feature-toggle-report/

.. _README: https://github.com/edx/edx-toggles/blob/master/scripts/README.rst

Commit message:

Fixes from review
- Typo fix was in wrong direction
- Remove possible improvement that may not be needed
- Use more general term "toggles state"
- Remove hard line breaks
- Clarify bit about arch-bom notifications
- Use better link for info on writing toggle annotations (more specific)

docs/how_to/adding_new_ida_to_toggle_report.rst, after:

.. _adding_new_ida:

=============================================
How-to: Enabling toggles report for a new IDA
=============================================

The generation of toggles report for an IDA has been automated for the LMS. This document lists what needs to be done to automate toggle report generation for other IDAs. There are a number of references in here that are specific to edX.org's automation infrastructure and internal configuration repos, but there should be enough detail provided for Open edX users to set up something similar.

.. contents:: Steps

Gathering Data
==============

Annotation data
---------------
The toggles are annotated in code following edX code annotation: `writing annotations`_. The `code_annotations`_ tool is used to collect annotations into a report.

The steps to collect annotations are automated through a jenkins job:

- `groovy job specification`_ in ``generate-code-annotation-report``
- `Jenkins Job folder`_
- Once the job is done, the annotations data is pushed to an S3 bucket: `script to push data to s3 bucket`_

The job creates files with names like `<ida_name>-annotations.yml`. The feature toggle report generator will key off the `ida_name` in the filename in order to be able to link this data to the toggle state data collected in the next step.

.. _writing annotations: https://github.com/edx/edx-toggles/blob/master/docs/how_to/documenting_new_feature_toggles.rst
.. _code_annotations: https://github.com/edx/code-annotations

Steps
~~~~~

- Add IDA specification to `edx-internal/*/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml`_ under ``idas`` key
- Add IDA specification in ``scripts/configuration.yaml``


Problems with current approach
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- If job fails, arch-bom is always notified, rather than the owning team


State data from HTTP endpoint
-----------------------------
Toggles state is stored in the database for each deployment and must be retrieved either directly from the database or via the application.

Collection of state data is automated through a jenkins job.

- `groovy job specification`_  in ``gather-${ida['name']}-${environment}-feature-toggle-state`` job
- `Jenkins Job folder`_
- Once the job is done, the state data is pushed to an S3 bucket: `script to push data to s3 bucket`_

Steps
~~~~~
- Add the edx-toggles Django app to the IDA:

    - Include ``edx-toggles`` in the ``base.in`` requirements file. It provides a Django view that allows staff users to retrieve a JSON document containing the toggles state. (**TODO:** Not yet possible! Functionality still in ``waffle_utils`` in edx-platform; will be moved into edx-toggles.)
    - Add it to your ``urls.py``: ``url(r'^api/toggles/', include('edx_toggles.views.TODO'))`` (**TODO:** As above, and names have yet to be decided.)

- Add environment specification for your database to `edx-internal/*/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml`_


Problems with current approach
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The toggle state Django app hasn't been moved into edx-toggles yet, so this only works for the LMS so far

.. _edx-internal/*/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml: https://github.com/edx/edx-internal/blob/master/tools-edx-jenkins/feature-toggle-report-generator.yml


Processing data
===============

`feature_toggle_report_generator.py`_


The annotation data and Toggle state data dump should be stored in s3 buckets. The automated publish-feature-toggle-report job (in `groovy job specification`_) pulls the data from s3 buckets and calls `feature_toggle_report_generator.py`_ to process  the data and output it as a csv file.

As long as the data is structured correctly (specified in `README`_), nothing should be necessary


Publishing data
===============

As of now, the toggle csv reports are retained as artifacts in Jenkins job: `publish-feature-toggle-report`_.

The plan is to eventually find a different home for it (possibly in google sheets).


.. _Jenkins Job folder: https://tools-edx-jenkins.edx.org/job/Feature-Toggle-Report-Generator
.. _groovy job specification: https://github.com/edx/jenkins-job-dsl-internal/blob/master/jobs/tools-edx-jenkins.edx.org/createFeatureToggleReportGeneratorJobs.groovy
.. _script to push data to s3 bucket: https://github.com/edx/jenkins-job-dsl-internal/blob/master/resources/push-feature-toggle-data-to-s3.sh
.. _script to pull data from s3 bucket: https://github.com/edx/jenkins-job-dsl-internal/blob/master/resources/pull-feature-toggle-data-from-s3.sh
.. _feature_toggle_report_generator.py: https://github.com/edx/edx-toggles/blob/master/scripts/feature_toggle_report_generator.py
.. _publish-feature-toggle-report: https://tools-edx-jenkins.edx.org/job/Feature-Toggle-Report-Generator/job/publish-feature-toggle-report/

.. _README: https://github.com/edx/edx-toggles/blob/master/scripts/README.rst
