scripts/README.rst, before:

Feature Toggle Reporter:
------------------------

We make extensive use of a variety of feature toggles at edX. However, it has
the downside of making the state of a deployed application somewhat opaque.
This tool anaylzes data from the codebases of deployed applications, as well
as their databases, to provide a summary of the feature toggles in use in a
given deployment. For more information, please see:

https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oep-0017-bp-feature-toggles.html

Prerequisites:
--------------

In order to create a feature toggle report for a given deployment, you need
two types of data: feature toggle annotation data and feature toggle data from
an application's database.

Feature Toggle Annotation Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Feature toggles are first defined in the code of an application. We make use of
the `code_annotations`_ tool, to annotate and summarize the definitions of
these components with information regarding their purpose, default values and
planned expiration dates.

.. code:: bash

    code_annotations static_find_annotations --config_file feature_annotations.yaml

Rename the resulting yml file `<ida_name>_annotation_data.yml`. This step is
necessary, as the feature toggle report generator will key off the `ida_name`
in the filename in order to be able to link this data to the toggle state data
collected in the next step. Create a directory called `annotation-data`, and
place the resulting annotation report from each IDA into this directory.

Feature Toggle State Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The current state of certain feature toggles (i.e. django-waffle, waffle-utils)
is not captured in the codebase, as it is decoupled from the deployment of
code. Rather, it must read from the database of an application.

Assuming you have a provisioned `devstack`_, run the following make commands to
generate the feature toggle state data files.

.. code:: bash

    python gather_feature_toggle_state.py feature-toggle-data

This will create a new directory called `feature-toggle-data`, containing
a data dump file for each ida that makes use of waffle feature toggles.

NOTE: To run this against a real environment, you will need to set the following
environment variables (the defaults work with devstack):

* DB_USER
* DB_PASSWORD
* DB_HOST
* DB_PORT

Additionally, you must set an environment variable to specify the database
name for each IDA that you are querying about, in following form:
<ida_name>_DB. For example:
* LMS_DB

Creating a Feature Toggle Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Assuming you have the two prerequisites mentioned above, install the
dependencies for the report generator, and run it, passing the following
values on the command line:

    * feature-toggle-data: path to the sql dump data created above
    * annotation-data: path to the code annotation data created above
    * reports: path to write report files into
    * environment: name of the environment/deployment that you are reporting on
    * --publish: (optional) a flag to specify whether or not to publish
      the resulting HTML report to Confluence

For example:

.. code:: bash

    python feature_toggle_report_generator.py my_data my_annotations output_dir stage --publish

NOTE: If you choose to publish to Confluence, you must have the following
environment variables set to be able to do so:

* CONFLUENCE_BASE_URL: the url of the confluence instance you are targeting. For
  example: https://my-company.atlassian.net
* CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN: a token for accessing the confluence api
* CONFLUENCE_USER_EMAIL: the email address of the user linked to the api token
* CONFLUENCE_SPACE_ID: the id of the space in confluence where you will publish the report
* CONFLUENCE_PAGE_NAME: the name of the page that will host your report. If it is not yet
  created, this tool will create it.

.. code:: bash

    make requirements
    python scripts/feature_toggle_report_generator.py feature-toggle-data annotation-data reports environment


.. _code_annotations: https://www.github.com/edx/code-annotations
.. _devstack: https://www.github.com/edx/devstack

Commit message:

add an annotation example to readmes (#21)
add an annotation example to readmes

scripts/README.rst, after:

Feature Toggle Reporter:
------------------------

We make extensive use of a variety of feature toggles at edX. However, it has
the downside of making the state of a deployed application somewhat opaque.
This tool anaylzes data from the codebases of deployed applications, as well
as their databases, to provide a summary of the feature toggles in use in a
given deployment. For more information, please see:

https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oep-0017-bp-feature-toggles.html

Prerequisites:
--------------

In order to create a feature toggle report for a given deployment, you need
two types of data: feature toggle annotation data and feature toggle data from
an application's database.

Feature Toggle Annotation Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Feature toggles are first defined in the code of an application. We make use of
the `code_annotations`_ tool, to annotate and summarize the definitions of
these components with information regarding their purpose, default values and
planned expiration dates.

Here is an example of a fully annotated CourseWaffleFlag:

.. code:: python

    # .. toggle_name: course_experience.show_reviews_tool
    # .. toggle_implementation: CourseWaffleFlag
    # .. toggle_default: False
    # .. toggle_description: Used with our integration with CourseTalk to display reviews for a course.
    # .. toggle_category: course_experience
    # .. toggle_use_cases: monitored_rollout
    # .. toggle_creation_date: 2017-06-19
    # .. toggle_expiration_date: ???
    # .. toggle_warnings: We are no longer integrating with CourseTalk, so this probably should be deprecated and the code for reviews should be removed.
    # .. toggle_tickets: DEPR-48
    # .. toggle_status: unsupported
    SHOW_REVIEWS_TOOL_FLAG = CourseWaffleFlag(WAFFLE_FLAG_NAMESPACE, 'show_reviews_tool')

To run the code-annotations tool to collect annotations into a report, run the
command (in the codebase of your choice):

.. code:: bash

    code_annotations static_find_annotations --config_file feature_annotations.yaml

Rename the resulting yml file `<ida_name>_annotation_data.yml`. This step is
necessary, as the feature toggle report generator will key off the `ida_name`
in the filename in order to be able to link this data to the toggle state data
collected in the next step. Create a directory called `annotation-data`, and
place the resulting annotation report from each IDA into this directory.

Feature Toggle State Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The current state of certain feature toggles (i.e. django-waffle, waffle-utils)
is not captured in the codebase, as it is decoupled from the deployment of
code. Rather, it must read from the database of an application.

Assuming you have a provisioned `devstack`_, run the following make commands to
generate the feature toggle state data files.

.. code:: bash

    python gather_feature_toggle_state.py feature-toggle-data

This will create a new directory called `feature-toggle-data`, containing
a data dump file for each ida that makes use of waffle feature toggles.

NOTE: To run this against a real environment, you will need to set the following
environment variables (the defaults work with devstack):

* DB_USER
* DB_PASSWORD
* DB_HOST
* DB_PORT

Additionally, you must set an environment variable to specify the database
name for each IDA that you are querying about, in following form:
<ida_name>_DB. For example:
* LMS_DB

Creating a Feature Toggle Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Assuming you have the two prerequisites mentioned above, install the
dependencies for the report generator, and run it, passing the following
values on the command line:

    * feature-toggle-data: path to the sql dump data created above
    * annotation-data: path to the code annotation data created above
    * reports: path to write report files into
    * environment: name of the environment/deployment that you are reporting on
    * --publish: (optional) a flag to specify whether or not to publish
      the resulting HTML report to Confluence

For example:

.. code:: bash

    python feature_toggle_report_generator.py my_data my_annotations output_dir stage --publish

NOTE: If you choose to publish to Confluence, you must have the following
environment variables set to be able to do so:

* CONFLUENCE_BASE_URL: the url of the confluence instance you are targeting. For
  example: https://my-company.atlassian.net
* CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN: a token for accessing the confluence api
* CONFLUENCE_USER_EMAIL: the email address of the user linked to the api token
* CONFLUENCE_SPACE_ID: the id of the space in confluence where you will publish the report
* CONFLUENCE_PAGE_NAME: the name of the page that will host your report. If it is not yet
  created, this tool will create it.

.. code:: bash

    make requirements
    python scripts/feature_toggle_report_generator.py feature-toggle-data annotation-data reports environment


.. _code_annotations: https://www.github.com/edx/code-annotations
.. _devstack: https://www.github.com/edx/devstack
