#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.8
# by the following command:
#
#    make upgrade
#
asgiref==3.7.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django
atlassian-python-api==3.41.4
    # via -r requirements/scripts.in
certifi==2023.11.17
    # via requests
cffi==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   pynacl
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-django-utils
code-annotations==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/scripts.in
deprecated==1.2.14
    # via atlassian-python-api
django==3.2.23
    # via
    #   -c https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edx/edx-lint/master/edx_lint/files/common_constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django-crum
    #   django-waffle
    #   edx-django-utils
django-crum==0.7.9
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
django-waffle==4.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
edx-django-utils==5.9.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
idna==3.6
    # via requests
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   jinja2
newrelic==9.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
oauthlib==3.2.2
    # via
    #   atlassian-python-api
    #   requests-oauthlib
pbr==6.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   stevedore
psutil==5.9.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pycparser==2.21
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   cffi
pynacl==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
python-slugify==8.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
pytz==2023.3.post1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   atlassian-python-api
    #   requests-oauthlib
requests-oauthlib==1.3.1
    # via atlassian-python-api
six==1.16.0
    # via atlassian-python-api
sqlparse==0.4.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django
stevedore==5.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-django-utils
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   python-slugify
typing-extensions==4.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   asgiref
urllib3==2.1.0
    # via requests
wrapt==1.16.0
    # via deprecated
